<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXXIV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-34" epub:type="chapter">
			<p>Hours later, Chandler was not sure just how, they were in a light plane flying high over the Pacific, clear out of sight of land. The moon was gold above them, the ocean black beneath.</p>
			<p>Chandler stared down as the girl circled the plane, slipping lower toward the water, silent and perplexed. But he was not afraid. He was almost content. Rosie was good company⁠—gay, cheerful⁠—and she had treasures to share. It had been an impulse of hers, a long drive in her sports car and a quick, comfortable flight over the ocean to cap the evening. It had been a pleasant impulse. He reflected gravely that he could understand now how generations of country maidens had been dazzled and despoiled. A touch of luxury was a great seducer.</p>
			<p>The coronet on the girl’s body could catch his body at any moment. She had only to think herself into his mind, and her will, flashed to a relay station like the one he was building for Koitska, at loose in infinity, could sweep into him and make him a puppet. If she chose, he would open that door beside him and step out into a thousand feet of air and a meal for the sharks.</p>
			<p>But he did not think she would do it. He did not think anyone would, really, though with his own eyes he had seen some anyones do things as bad as that and sickeningly worse. There was no corrupt whim of the most diseased mind in history that some torpid exec had not visited on a helpless man, woman or child in the past years. Even as they flew here, Chandler knew, the gross bodies that lay in luxury in the island’s villas were surging restlessly around the world; and death and horror remained where they had passed. It was a paradox too great to be reconciled, this girl and this vileness. He could not forget it, but he could not feel it in his glands. She was pretty. She was gay. He began to think thoughts that had left him alone for a long time.</p>
			<p>The dark bulk of the island showed ahead and they were sinking toward a landing.</p>
			<p>The girl landed skillfully on a runway that sprang into light as she approached⁠—electronic wizardry, or the coronet and some tethered serf at a switch? It didn’t matter. Nothing mattered very greatly at that moment to Chandler.</p>
			<p>“Thank you, love,” she said, laughing. “I liked that. It’s all very well to use someone else’s body for this sort of thing, but every now and then I want to keep my own in practice.”</p>
			<p>She linked arms with him as they left the plane. “When I was first given the coronet here,” she reminisced, amusement in her voice, “I got the habit real bad. I spent six awful months⁠—really, six months in bed! And by myself at that. Oh, I was all over the world, and skin-diving on the Barrier Reef and skiing in Norway and⁠—well,” she said, squeezing his arm, “never <em>mind</em> what all. And then one day I got on the scales, just out of habit. Do you know what I <em>weighed</em>?” She closed her eyes in mock horror, but they were smiling when she opened them again. “I won’t do that again, love. Of course, a lot of us do let ourselves go. Even Koitska. Especially Koitska. And some of the women⁠—But just between us, the ones who do really didn’t have much to keep in shape in the first place.”</p>
			<p>She led the way into a villa that smelled of jasmine and gardenias, snapped her fingers and subdued lights came on. “Like it? Oh, we’ve nothing but the best. What would you like to drink?”</p>
			<p>She fixed them both tall, cold glasses and vetoed Chandler’s choice of a sprawling wicker chair to sit on. “Over here, love.” She patted the couch beside her. She drew up her legs, leaning against him, very soft, warm and fragrant, and said dreamily, “Let me see. What’s nice? What do you like in music, love?”</p>
			<p>“Oh⁠ ⁠… anything.”</p>
			<p>“No, no! You’re supposed to say, ‘Why, the original-cast album from <i epub:type="se:name.visual-arts.film">Hi There</i>.’ Or anything else I starred in.” She shook her head reprovingly, and the points of her coronet caught golden reflections from the lights. “But since you’re obviously a man of low taste I’ll have to do the whole bit myself.” She touched switches at a remote-control set by her end of the couch, and in a moment dreamy strings began to come from tri-aural speakers hidden around the room. It was not <i epub:type="se:name.visual-arts.film">Hi There</i>. “That’s better,” she said drowsily, and in a moment, “Wasn’t it nice in the plane?”</p>
			<p>“It was fine,” Chandler said. Gently⁠—but firmly⁠—he sat up and reached automatically into his pocket.</p>
			<p>The girl sighed and straightened. “Cigarette? They’re on the table beside you. Hope you like the brand. They only keep one big factory going, not to count those terrible Russian things that’re all air and no smoke.” She touched his forehead with cool fingers. “You never told me about that, love.”</p>
			<p>It was like an electric shock⁠—the touch of her fingers and the touch of reality at once. Chandler said stiffly, “My brand. But I thought you were there at the trial.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, only now and then. I missed all the naughty parts⁠—though, to tell the truth, that’s why I was hanging around. I do like to hear a little naughtiness now and then⁠ ⁠… but all I heard was that stupid lawyer and that stupid judge. Made me mad.” She giggled. “Lucky for you. I was so irritated I decided to spoil their fun too.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
