<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>VI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-6" epub:type="chapter">
			<p>Chandler caught his lawyer by the arm and jerked him away from staring at the scene. All of a sudden he was alive again. “You, damn it. Listen! The jury acquitted me, right?”</p>
			<p>The lawyer was startled. “Don’t be ridiculous. It’s a clear case of⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Be a lawyer, man! You live on technicalities, don’t you? Make this one work for me!”</p>
			<p>The attorney gave him a queer, thoughtful look, hesitated, shrugged and got to his feet. He had to shout to be heard. “Your honor! I take it my client is free to go.”</p>
			<p>He made almost as much of a stir as the sobbing woman, but he outshouted the storm. “The jury’s verdict is on record. Granted there was an <i>apparent</i> case of possession. Nevertheless⁠—”</p>
			<p>Judge Ellithorp yelled back: “No nonsense, you! Listen to me, young man⁠—”</p>
			<p>The lawyer snapped, “Permission to approach the bench.”</p>
			<p>“Granted.”</p>
			<p>Chandler sat unable to move, watching the brief, stormy conference. It was painful to be coming back to life. It was agony to hope. At least, he thought detachedly, his lawyer was fighting for him; the prosecutor’s face was a thundercloud.</p>
			<p>The lawyer came back, with the expression of a man who has won a victory he did not expect, and did not want. “Your last chance, Chandler. Change your plea to guilty.”</p>
			<p>“But⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Don’t push your luck, boy! The judge has agreed to accept a plea. They’ll throw you out of town, of course. But you’ll be alive.” Chandler hesitated. “Make up your mind! The best I can do otherwise is a mistrial, and that means you’ll get convicted by another jury next week.”</p>
			<p>Chandler said, testing his luck: “You’re sure they’ll keep their end of the bargain?”</p>
			<p>The lawyer shook his head, his expression that of a man who smells something unpleasant. “Your honor! I ask you to discharge the jury. My client wishes to change his plea.”</p>
			<p>… In the school’s chemistry lab, an hour later, Chandler discovered that the lawyer had left out one little detail. Outside there was a sound of motors idling, the police car that would dump him at the town’s limits; inside was a thin, hollow hiss. It was the sound of a Bunsen burner, and in its blue flame a crudely shaped iron changed slowly from cherry to orange to glowing straw. It had the shape of a letter “H.”</p>
			<p>“H” for “hoaxer.” The mark they were about to put on his forehead would be with him wherever he went and as long as he lived, which would probably not be long. “H” for “hoaxer,” so that a glance would show that he had been convicted of the worst offense of all.</p>
			<p>No one spoke to him as the sheriff’s man took the iron out of the fire, but three husky policemen held his arms while he screamed.</p>
			<hr class="chap"/>
			<p class="ph4">III</p>
			<p>The pain was still burning when Chandler awoke the next day. He wished he had a bandage, but he didn’t, and that was that.</p>
			<p>He was in a freight car⁠—had hopped it on the run at the yards, daring to sneak back into town long enough for that. He could not hope to hitchhike, with that mark on him. Anyway, hitchhiking was an invitation to trouble.</p>
			<p>The railroads were safer⁠—far safer than either cars or air transport, notoriously a lightning-rod attracting possession. Chandler was surprised when the train came crashing to a stop, each freight car smashing against the couplings of the one ahead, the engine jolting forward and stopping again.</p>
			<p>Then there was silence. It endured.</p>
			<p>Chandler, who had been slowly waking after a night of very little sleep, sat up against the wall of the boxcar and wondered what was wrong.</p>
			<p>It seemed remiss to start a day without signing the Cross or hearing a few exorcismal verses. It seemed to be mid-morning, time for work to be beginning at the plant. The lab men would be streaming in, their amulets examined at the door. The chaplains would be wandering about, ready to pray a possessing spirit out. Chandler, who kept an open mind, had considerable doubt of the effectiveness of all the amulets and spells⁠—certainly they had not kept him from a brutal rape⁠—but he felt uneasy without them.⁠ ⁠… The train still was not moving. In the silence he could hear the distant huffing of the engine.</p>
			<p>He went to the door, supporting himself with one hand on the wooden wall, and looked out.</p>
			<p>The tracks followed the roll of a river, their bed a few feet higher than an empty three-lane highway, which in turn was a dozen feet above the water. As he looked out the engine brayed twice. The train jolted uncertainly, then stopped again.</p>
			<p>Then there was a very long time when nothing happened at all.</p>
			<p>From Chandler’s car he could not see the engine. He was on the convex of the curve, and the other door of the car was sealed. He did not need to see it to know that something was wrong. There should have been a brakeman running with a flare to ward off other trains; but there was not. There should have been a station, or at least a water tank, to account for the stop in the first place. There was not. Something had gone wrong, and Chandler knew what it was. Not the details, but the central fact that lay behind this and behind almost everything that went wrong these days.</p>
			<p>The engineer was possessed. It had to be that.</p>
			<p>Yet it was odd, he thought, as odd as his own trouble. He had chosen this car with care. It contained eight refrigerator cars full of pharmaceuticals, and if anything was known about the laws governing possession, as his lawyer had told him, it was that such things were almost never interfered with.</p>
			<p>Chandler jumped down to the roadbed, slipped on the crushed rock and almost fell. He had forgotten the wound on his forehead. He clutched the sill of the car door, where an ankh and fleur-de-lis had been chalked to ward off demons, until the sudden rush of blood subsided and the pain began to relent. After a moment he walked gingerly to the end of the car, slipped between the cars, dodged the couplers and climbed the ladder to its roof.</p>
			<p>It was a warm, bright, silent day. Nothing moved. From his height he could see the Diesel at the front of the train and the caboose at its rear. No people. The train was halted a quarter-mile from where the tracks swooped across the river on a suspension bridge. Away from the river, the side of the tracks that had been hidden from him before, was an uneven rock cut and, above it, the slope of a mountain.</p>
			<p>By looking carefully he could spot the signs of a number of homes within half a mile or so⁠—the corner of a roof, a glassed-in porch built to command a river view, a twenty-foot television antenna poking through the trees. There was also the curve of a higher road along which the homes were strung.</p>
			<p>Chandler took thought. He was alive and free, two gifts more gracious than he had had any right to expect. However, he would need food and he would need at least some sort of bandage for his forehead. He had a wool cap, stolen from the high school, which would hide the mark, though what it would do to the burn on his skin was something else again.</p>
			<p>Chandler climbed down the ladder. With considerable pain he gentled the cap over the great raw H on his forehead and began to climb the mountain.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
