<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XIX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-19" epub:type="chapter">
			<p>Chandler ate every crumb, sought and found a washroom in the wrecked building, came out again and sat in the sun, watching the loading crew. He had become quite a fatalist. It did not seem that it was intended he should die immediately, so he might as well live.</p>
			<p>There were large gaps in his understanding, but it seemed clear to Chandler that these men, though not possessed, were in some way working for the possessors. It was a distasteful concept; but on second thought it had reassuring elements. It was evidence that whatever the “execs” were, they were very possibly human beings⁠—or, if not precisely human, at least shared the human trait of working by some sort of organized effort toward some sort of a goal. It was the first nonrandom phenomenon he had seen in connection with the possessors, barring the short-term tactical matters of mass slaughter and destruction. It made him feel⁠—what he tried at once to suppress, for he feared another destroying frustration⁠—a touch of hope.</p>
			<p>The men finished their work but did not leave. Nor did they approach Chandler, but sat in the shade of their truck, waiting for something. He drowsed and was awakened by a distant sputter of a single-engined Aerocoupe that hopped across the building behind him, turned sharply and came down with a brisk little run in the parking bay itself.</p>
			<p>From one side the pilot climbed down and from the other two men lifted, with great care, a wooden crate, small but apparently heavy. They stowed it in the jet while the pilot stood watching; then the pilot and one of the other men got into the crew compartment. Chandler could not be sure, but he had the impression that the truckman who entered the plane was no longer his own master. His movements seemed more sure and confident, but above all it was the mute, angry eyes with which his fellows regarded him that gave Chandler grounds for suspicion. He had no time to worry about that; for in the same breath he felt himself occupied once more.</p>
			<p>He did not rise. His own voice said to him, “You. Votever you name, you fellow vit de book! You go get de book verever you pud it and get on dat ship dere, you see?” His eyes turned toward the waiting aircraft. “And don’t forget de book!”</p>
			<p>He was released. “I won’t,” he said automatically, and then realized that there was no longer anyone there to hear his answer.</p>
			<p>When he retrieved the Gibran volume from the car and approached the plane the loading crew said nothing. Evidently they knew what he was doing⁠—either because they too had been given instructions, or because they were used to such things. He paused at the wheeled stairs. “Listen,” he said, “can you at least tell me where I’m going?”</p>
			<p>The four remaining men looked at him silently, with the same angry, worried expression he had seen on their faces before. They did not answer, but after a moment one of them raised his arm and pointed.</p>
			<p>West. Out toward the Pacific. Out toward some ten million square miles of nearly empty sea.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
