<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>LII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-52" epub:type="chapter">
			<p>He did not hesitate then either.</p>
			<p>He did not pause to think or plan; it was as though he had planned every step, in long detail, over many years. Chandler for at least a few moments had the freedom to battle the execs on their own ground, the freedom that any mourning parent or husband in the outside world would know well how to use.</p>
			<p>Chandler also knew. He was a weapon. He might die⁠—but it was not a great thing to die, millions had done it for nothing under the rule of the execs, and he was privileged to be able to die trying to kill <i>them</i>.</p>
			<p>He stepped callously around the hulk on the floor and found a door behind the couch, a door and a hall, and at the end of that hall a large room that had once perhaps been a message center. Now it held rack after rack of electronic gear. He recognized it without elation. It had had to be there.</p>
			<p>It was the main transmitter for all the coronets of the exec.</p>
			<p>He had only to pull one switch⁠—that one there⁠—and power would cease to flow. The coronets would be dead. The execs would be only humans. In five minutes he could destroy enough parts so that it would be at least a week’s work to build it again, and in a week the slaves in Honolulu⁠—somehow he could reach them, somehow he would tell them of their chance⁠—could root out and destroy every exec on all the islands.</p>
			<p>Of course, there was the standby transmitter he himself had helped to build.</p>
			<p>He realized tardily that Koitska would have made some arrangement for starting that up by remote control.</p>
			<p>He put down the tool-kit with which he had been advancing on the racks of transistors, and paused to think.</p>
			<p>He was a fool, he saw after a moment. He could not destroy this installation⁠—not yet⁠—not until he had used it. He remembered to sit down so that his body would not crash to the floor, and then he sent himself out and up, to scan the nearby area.</p>
			<p>There was no one there, nobody within a mile or more, except the feeble glimmer that was dying Koitska. He did not enter that body. He returned to his own long enough to barricade the door⁠—it had a strong-looking lock, but he shouldered furniture against it too⁠—and then he went up and out, grateful to Rosalie, who had taught him how to navigate in the curious world of the mind, flashing across water, under a mind-controlled plane, to the island of Hilo.</p>
			<p>There <i>had</i> to be someone near the standby installation.</p>
			<p>He searched; but there was no one. No one in the building. No one near the ruined field. No one in the village of the dead nearby. He was desperate; he became frantic; he was on the point of giving up, and then he found⁠—someone? But it was a personality feebler than stricken Koitska’s, a bare swampfire glow.</p>
			<p>No matter. He entered it.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
