<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-11" epub:type="chapter">
			<p>This was the sort of peace that was left, thought Chandler looking around at the queer faces and queerer surroundings, the peace of medieval baronies, cut off from the world, untouched where the rain of fallout had passed by but hardly civilized any more. Even his own home town, trying to take his life in a form of law, reduced at last to torture and exile to cast him out, was not the civilization he had grown up in but something new and ugly.</p>
			<p>There was a great deal of talk he did not understand because he could not quite hear it, though they looked at him. Then Guy, with the gun, led him up to the front of the room. They had constructed an improvised platform out of plywood panels resting on squat, heavy boxes that looked like empty ammunition crates. On the dais was a dentist’s chair, bolted to the plywood; and in the chair, strapped in, baby spotlights on steel-tube frames glaring on her, was a girl. She looked at Chandler with regretting eyes but did not speak.</p>
			<p>“Stranger, get up there,” said Guy, prodding him from behind, and Chandler took a plain wooden chair next to the girl.</p>
			<p>“People of Orphalese,” cried the teen-age cutie named Meggie, “we have two more brands to save from the imps!”</p>
			<p>The men and women in the audience cackled or shrilled “Save them! Save them!” They all had a look of invisible uniforms, Chandler saw, like baseball players in the lobby of a hotel or soldiers in a diner outside the gate of their post; they were all of a type. Their type was something strange. Some were tall, some short; there were old, fat, lean and young around them; but they all wore about them a look of glowing excitement, muted by an aura of suffering and pain. They wore, in a word, the look of bigots.</p>
			<p>The bound girl was not one of them. She might have been twenty years old or as much as thirty. She might have been pretty. It was hard to tell; she wore no makeup, her hair strung raggedly to her neck, and her face was drawn into a tight, lean line. It was her eyes that were alive. She saw Chandler and she was sorry for him. And he saw, as he turned to look at her, that she was manacled to the dentist’s chair.</p>
			<p>“People of Orphalese,” chanted Guy, standing behind Chandler with the muzzle of the gun against his neck, “the <i>meeting</i> of the Orphalese Self-Preservation <i>Society</i> will now come to <i>order</i>.” There was an approving, hungry murmur from the audience.</p>
			<p>“Well, people of <i>Orphalese</i>,” Guy went on in his singsong, “the agenda for the day is first the salvation of we <i>Orphalese</i> on McGuire’s <i>Mountain</i>.”</p>
			<p>(“All saved, all of us saved,” rolled a murmur from the congregation.) A lean, red-headed man bounded to the platform and fussed with the stand of spotlights, turning one of them full on Chandler.</p>
			<p>“People of Orphalese, as we are <i>saved</i>, do I have your consent to <i>pass on</i> and proceed to the next order of <i>business</i>?”</p>
			<p>(“Consent, consent, consent,” rolled the echo.)</p>
			<p>“And then the <i>second</i> item of business is to <i>welcome</i> and bring to grace these two newly <i>found</i> and adopted <i>souls</i>.”</p>
			<p>The congregation shouted variously: “Bring them to grace! Save them from the imps! Keep Orphalese from the taint of the beast!”</p>
			<p>Evidently Guy was satisfied. He nodded and became more chatty. “Okay, people of Orphalese, let’s get down to it. We got two new ones, like I say. Their spirits have gone wandering on the wind, or anyway one of them has, and you all know the et cetera. They have committed a wrong unto others and therefore unto themselves. Herself, I mean. Course, the other one could have a flame spirit in him too.” He stared severely at Chandler. “Boys, keep an eye on him, why don’t you?” he said to two men in the front row, surrendering his gun. “Meggie, you tell about the female one.”</p>
			<p>The teen-aged girl stepped forward and said, in a conversational tone but with modest pride, “People of Orph’lese, well, I was walking down the cut and I heard this car coming. Well, I was pretty surprised, you know. I had to figure what to do. You all know what the trouble is with cars.”</p>
			<p>“The imps!” cried a woman of forty with a face like a catfish.</p>
			<p>The girl nodded. “Most prob’ly. Well, I⁠—I mean, people of Orph’lese, well, I was by the switchback where we keep the chevvy-freeze hid, so I just waited till I saw it slowing down for the curve⁠—me out of sight, you know⁠—and I rolled the chevvy-freeze out nice and it caught the wheels. Right over!” she cried gleefully. “Off the shoulder, people of Orph’lese, and into the ditch and over, and I didn’t give it a chance to burn. I cut the switch and I had her! I put a knife into her back, just a little, about a quarter of an inch, maybe. Her pain was the breakin’ of the shell that enclosed her understanding, like it says. I figured she was all right then because she yelled but I brought her along that way. Then Guy took care of her until we got the synod. Oh,” she remembered, “and her tongue staggered a little without purpose while he was putting it on, didn’t it, Guy?” The bearded man nodded, grinning, and lifted up the girl’s foot. Incredulously, Chandler saw that it was bound tight with a three-foot length of barbed wire, wound and twisted like a tourniquet, the blood black and congealed around it. He lifted his shocked eyes to meet the girl’s. She only looked at him, with pity and understanding.</p>
			<p>Guy patted the foot and let it go. “I didn’t have any more C-clamps, people of Orphalese,” he apologized, “but it looks all right at that. Well, let’s see. We got to make up our minds about these two, I guess⁠—no, wait!” He held up his hand as a murmur began. “First thing is, we ought to read a verse or two.”</p>
			<p>He opened a purple-bound volume at random, stared at a page for a moment, moving his lips, and then read:</p>
			<p>“Some of you say, ‘It is the north wind who has woven the clothes we wear.’</p>
			<p>“And I say, Ay, it was the north wind, but shame was his loom, and the softening of the sinews was his thread.</p>
			<p>“And when his work was done he laughed in the forest.”</p>
			<p>Gently he closed the book, looking thoughtfully at the wall at the back of the room. He scratched his head. “Well, people of Orphalese,” he said slowly “they’re laughing in the forest all right, I guarantee, but we’ve got one here that may be honest in the flesh, probably is, though she was a thief in the spirit. Right? Well, do we take her in or reject her, O people of Orphalese?”</p>
			<p>The audience muttered to itself and then began to call out: “Accept! Oh, bring in the brand! Accept and drive out the imp!”</p>
			<p>“Fine,” said the teen-ager, rubbing her hands and looking at the bearded man. “Guy, let her go.” He began to release her from the chair. “You, girl stranger, what’s your name?”</p>
			<p>The girl said faintly, “Ellen Braisted.”</p>
			<p>“ ’<i>Meggie</i>, my name is Ellen Braisted,’ ” corrected the teen-ager. “Always say the name of the person you’re talkin’ to in Orph’lese, that way we know it’s you talkin’, not a flame spirit or wanderer. Okay, go sit down.” Ellen limped wordlessly down into the audience. “Oh, and people of Orph’lese,” said Meggie, “the car’s still there if we need it for anything. It didn’t burn. Guy, you go on with this other fellow.”</p>
			<p>Guy stroked his beard and assessed Chandler, looking him over carefully. “Okay,” he said. “People of Orphalese, the <i>third</i> order of business is to <i>welcome</i> or reject this <i>other</i> brand saved from the imps, as may be your <i>pleasure</i>.” Chandler sat up straighter now that all of them were looking at him again; but it wasn’t quite his turn, at that, because there was an interruption. Guy never finished. From the valley, far below, there was a sudden mighty thunder, rolling among the mountains. The windows blew in with a crystalline crash.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
