<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXXVII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-37" epub:type="chapter">
			<p>The next morning he went back to Parts ’n Plenty with an additional list, covering replacement of some parts that had been damaged. Hsi glanced at it quickly and nodded. “All this stuff I have. You can pick it up this afternoon if you like.”</p>
			<p>Chandler offered him a cigarette out of a stale pack. “About the other night⁠—”</p>
			<p>Hsi began to perspire, but he said, casually enough, “Interested in baseball?”</p>
			<p>“Baseball?”</p>
			<p>Hsi said, as though there had been nothing incongruous about the question, “There’ll be a Little League game this afternoon. Back of the school on Punahou and Wilder. I thought I might stop by, then we can come back and pick up the rest of your gear. Two o’clock. Hope I’ll see you.”</p>
			<p>Chandler walked away thoughtfully. He had no real intention of going there, but something in Hsi’s attitude suggested more than a ball game; after a quick and poor lunch he decided to go.</p>
			<p>The field was a dirty playground, scuffed out of what had probably once been an attractive campus. The players were ten-year-olds, of the mixture of hair colors and complexions typical of the islands. Chandler was puzzled. Surely even the wildest baseball rooter wouldn’t go far out of his way for this, and yet there was an audience of at least fifty adults watching the game. And none seemed to be related to the ballplayers. The Little Leaguers played grave, careful ball, and the audience watched them without a word of parental encouragement or joy.</p>
			<p>Hsi approached him from the shadow of the school building. “Glad you could make it, Chandler. No, no questions. Just watch.”</p>
			<p>In the fifth inning, with the score aggregating around thirty, there was an interruption. A tall, redheaded man glanced at his watch, licked his lips, took a deep breath and walked out onto the diamond. He glanced at the crowd, while the kids suspended play without surprise. Then the redheaded man nodded to the umpire and stepped off the field. The ballplayers resumed their game, but now the whole attention of the audience was on the redheaded man.</p>
			<p>Suspicion crossed Chandler’s mind. In a moment it was confirmed, as the redheaded man raised his hands waist high and clasped his right hand around his left wrist⁠—only for a moment, but that was enough.</p>
			<p>The ball game was a cover. Chandler was present at a meeting of what Hsi had called The Society of Slaves, the underground that dared to pit itself against the execs.</p>
			<p>Hsi cleared his throat and said, “This is the one. I vouch for him.” And that was startling too, Chandler thought, because all these wrist-circled men and women were looking at <em>him</em>.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
