<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXIX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-29" epub:type="chapter">
			<p>They took a bus out Kapiolani Boulevard, then got out and walked a few blocks to a restaurant named Mother Chee’s. Hsi was well known there, it seemed. He led Chandler to a booth at the back, nodded to the waiter, ordered without looking at the menu and sat back. “You malihinis don’t know much about food,” he said, humorously patronizing. “I think you’ll like it. It’s all fish, anyway.”</p>
			<p>The man was annoying. Chandler was moved to say, “Too bad, I was hoping for duck in orange sauce, perhaps some snow peas⁠—”</p>
			<p>Hsi shook his head. “There’s meat, all right, but not here. You’ll only find it in the places where the execs sometimes go.⁠ ⁠… Tell me something, Chandler. What’s that scar on your forehead.”</p>
			<p>Chandler touched it, almost with surprise. Since the medics had treated it he had almost forgotten it was there. He began to explain, then paused, looking at Hsi, and changed his mind. “What’s the score? You testing me, too? Want to see if I’ll lie about it?”</p>
			<p>Hsi grinned. “Sorry. I guess that’s what I was doing. I do know what an ‘H’ stands for; we’ve seen them before. Not many. The ones that do get this far usually don’t last long. Unless, of course, they are working for somebody whom it wouldn’t do to offend,” he explained.</p>
			<p>“So what you want to know, then, is whether I was really hoaxing or not. Does it make any difference?”</p>
			<p>“Damn right it does, man! We’re slaves, but we’re not animals!” Chandler had gotten to him; the parts man looked startled, then sallow, as he observed his own vehemence.</p>
			<p>“Sorry, Hsi. It makes a difference to me, too. Well, I wasn’t hoaxing. I was possessed, just like any other everyday rapist-murderer, only I couldn’t prove it. And it didn’t look too good for me, because the damn thing happened in a pharmaceuticals plant. That was supposed to be about the only place in town where you could be sure you wouldn’t be possessed, or so everybody thought. Including me. Up to the time I went ape.”</p>
			<p>Hsi nodded. The waiter approached with their drinks. Hsi looked at him appraisingly, then did a curious thing. He gripped his left wrist with his right hand, quickly, then released it again. The waiter did not appear to notice. Expertly he served the drinks, folded small pink floral napkins, dumped and wiped their ashtray in one motion⁠—and then, so quickly that Chandler was not quite sure he had seen it, caught Hsi’s wrist in the same fleeting gesture just before he turned and walked away.</p>
			<p>Without comment Hsi turned back to Chandler. He said, “I believe you. Would you like to know why it happened? Because I think I can tell you. The execs have all the antibiotics they need now.”</p>
			<p>“You mean⁠—” Chandler hesitated.</p>
			<p>“That’s right. They did leave some areas alone, as long as they weren’t fully stocked on everything they might want for the foreseeable future. Wouldn’t you?”</p>
			<p>“I might,” Chandler said cautiously, “if I knew what I was⁠—being an exec.”</p>
			<p>Hsi said, “Eat your dinner. I’ll take a chance and tell you what I know.” He swallowed his whiskey-on-the-rocks with a quick backward jerk of the head. “They’re mostly Russians⁠—you must know that much for yourself. The whole thing started in Russia.”</p>
			<p>Chandler said, “Well, that’s pretty obvious. But Russia was smashed up as much as anywhere else. The whole Russian government was killed⁠—wasn’t it?”</p>
			<p>Hsi nodded. “They’re not the government. Not the exec. Communism doesn’t mean any more to them than the Declaration of Independence does⁠—which is nothing. It’s very simple, Chandler: they’re a project that got out of hand.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
