<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XIV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-14" epub:type="chapter">
			<p>It was not hard to join at all. Meg chattily informed him that he was already practically a member. “Chandler, we got to watch everybody strange, you know. See why, don’t you? Might have a flame spirit in ’em, no fault of theirs, but look how they could mess us up. But now we know you don’t, so⁠—What do you mean, how do we know? Cause you <i>did</i> have one when you busted loose in there. Can’t have two at a time, you know. Think we couldn’t tell the difference?”</p>
			<p>The interrupted meeting was resumed after the place had been tidied up and the dead buried. There had been four of the hunters, and even without their sub-machine guns they had succeeded in killing eight Orphalese. But it was not all loss to the Orphalese, because two of the hunters were still alive, though wounded, and under the rules of this chessboard the captured enemy became a friend.</p>
			<p>Guy had suffered a broken jaw in the scuffle and another man presided, a fat youth who favored a bandaged leg. He limped to his feet, grimacing and patting his leg. “O Orphalese and brothers,” he said, “we have lost friends, but we have won a test. Praise the Prophet, we will be spared to win again, and to drive the imps of fire out of our world. Meggie, you going to tie these folks up?” The girl proudly ordered one of the hunters into the spotlighted dentist’s chair, another into a wing chair that was hastily moved onto the platform. The men were bleeding and hurt, but they had clearly been abandoned by their possessors. They watched with puzzlement and fear.</p>
			<p>“Walter, they’re okay now,” Meg reported as others finished tying up the hunters. “Oh, wait a minute.” She advanced on Chandler. “Chandler, I’m sorry. You sit down there, hear?”</p>
			<p>Chandler suffered himself to be bound to a camp chair on the platform and Walter took a drink of wine and opened the ornate book that was before him on the rostrum.</p>
			<p>“Meg, thanks. Guy, I hope I do this as good as you do. Let me read you a little. Let’s see.” He put on his steel-rimmed glasses and read:</p>
			<p>“Much in you is still man, and much in you is not yet man, but a shapeless pigmy that walks asleep in the mist searching for its own awakening.”</p>
			<p>He closed the book, looked with satisfaction at Guy and said: “Do you understand that, new friends? They are the words of the Prophet, who men call Kahlil Gibran. For the benefit of the new folks I ought to say that he died this fleshly life quite a good number of years ago, but his vision was unclouded. Like we say, we are the sinews that batter the flame spirits but he is our soul.” There was an antiphonal murmur from the audience and Walter flipped the pages again rapidly, obviously looking for a familiar passage. “People of Orphalese, here we are now. This’s what he says. What is this that has torn our world apart? The Prophet says: ‘It is life in quest of life, in bodies that fear the grave.’ Now, honestly, nothing could be clearer than that, people of Orphalese and friends! We got something taking possession of us, see? What is it? Well, he says here, people of Orphalese and friends, ‘It is a flame spirit in you ever gathering more of itself.’ Now, what the heck! Nobody can blame <i>us</i> for what a flame spirit <i>in</i> us does! So the first thing we got to learn, friends⁠—and people of Orphalese⁠—is, we aren’t to blame. And the second thing is, we <i>are</i> to blame!”</p>
			<p>He turned and grinned at Chandler kindly, while the chorus of responses came from the room, “Like here,” he said, “people of Orphalese, the Prophet says <i>everybody</i> is guilty. ‘The murdered is not unaccountable for his own murder, and the robbed is not blameless in being robbed. The righteous is not innocent of the deeds of the wicked, and the white-handed is not clean in the doings of the felon.’ You see what he’s getting at? We all got to take the responsibility for <i>everything</i>⁠—and that means we got to suffer⁠—but we don’t have to worry about any special things we did when some flame spirit or wanderer, like, took us over.</p>
			<p>“But we do have to suffer, people of Orphalese.” His expression became grim. “Our beloved founder, Guy, who’s sitting there doing a little extra suffering now, was favored enough to understand these things in the very beginning, when he himself was seized by these imps. And it is all in this book! Like it says, ‘Your pain is self-chosen. It is the bitter potion by which the physician within you heals your sick self.’ Ponder on that, people of Orphalese⁠—and friends. No, I mean really ponder,” he explained, glancing at the bound “friends” on the platform. “We always do that for a minute. Ada there will play us some music so we can ponder.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
