<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>III</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-3" epub:type="chapter">
			<p>The prosecution made its case very quickly. Mrs. Porter testified that she worked at McKelvey Bros., the antibiotics plant, where the defendant also worked. Yes, that was him. She had been attracted by the noise from the culture room last⁠—let’s see⁠—“Was it the seventeenth day of June last?” prompted the prosecutor, and Chandler’s attorney instinctively gathered his muscles to rise, hesitated, glanced at his client and shrugged. That was right, it was the seventeenth. Incautiously she went right into the room. She should have known better, she admitted. She should have called the plant police right away, but, well, they hadn’t had any trouble at the plant, you know, and⁠—well, she didn’t. She was a stupid woman, for all that she was rather good-looking, and insatiably curious. She had seen Peggy Flershem on the floor. “She was all <i>blood</i>. And her clothes were⁠—And she was, I mean her⁠—her body was⁠—” With relentless tact the prosecutor allowed her to stammer out her observation that the girl had clearly been raped. And she had seen Chandler laughing and breaking up the place, throwing racks of cultures through the windows, upsetting trays. Of course she had crossed herself and tried a quick exorcism but there was no visible effect; then Chandler had leaped at her. “He was <i>hateful</i>! He was just <i>foul</i>!” But as he began to attack her the plant police came, drawn by her screams.</p>
			<p>Chandler’s attorney did not question.</p>
			<p>Peggy Flershem’s deposition was introduced without objection from the defense. But she had little to say anyway, having been dazed at first and unconscious later. The plant police testified to having arrested Chandler; a doctor described in chaste medical words the derangements Chandler had worked on Peggy Flershem’s virgin anatomy. There was no question from Chandler’s lawyer⁠—and, for that matter, nothing to question. Chandler did not hope to pretend that he had not ravished and nearly killed one girl, then done his best to repeat the process on another. Sitting there as the doctor testified, Chandler was able to tally every break and bruise against the memory of what his own body had done. He had been a spectator then, too, as remote from the event as he was now; but that was why they had him on trial. That was what they did not believe.</p>
			<p>At twelve-thirty the prosecution rested its case, Judge Ellithorp looking very pleased. He recessed the court for one hour for lunch, and the guards took Chandler back to the detention cell in the basement of the school.</p>
			<p>Two Swiss cheese sandwiches and a wax-paper carton of chocolate milk were on the desk. They were Chandler’s lunch. As they had been standing, the sandwiches were crusty and the milk lukewarm. He ate them anyway. He knew what the judge looked pleased about. At one-thirty Chandler’s lawyer would put him on the stand, and no one would pay very much attention to what he had to say, and the jury would be out at most twenty minutes, and the verdict would be guilty. The judge was pleased because he would be able to pronounce sentence no later than four o’clock, no matter what. They had formed the habit of holding the executions at sundown. As, at that time of year, sundown was after seven, it would all go very well⁠—for everyone but Chandler. For Chandler it would be the end.</p>
			<hr class="chap"/>
			<p class="ph4">II</p>
			<p>The odd thing about Chandler’s dilemma was not merely that he was innocent⁠—in a way, that is⁠—but that many who were guilty (in a way; as guilty as he himself, at any rate) were free and honored citizens. Chandler himself was a widower because his own wife had been murdered. He had seen the murderer leaving the scene of the crime, and the man he had seen was in the courtroom today, watching Chandler’s own trial. Of the six hundred or so in the court, at least fifty were known to have taken part in one or more provable acts of murder, rape, arson, theft, sodomy, vandalism, assault and battery or a dozen other offenses indictable under the laws of the state. Of course, that could be said of almost any community in the world in those years; Chandler’s was not unique. What had put Chandler in the dock was not what his body had been seen to do, but the place in which it had been seen to do it. For everybody knew that medicine and agriculture were never molested by the demons.</p>
			<p>Chandler’s own lawyer had pointed that out to him the day before the trial. “If it was anywhere but at the McKelvey plant, all right, but there’s never been any trouble there. You know that. The trouble with you laymen is you think of lawyers in terms of Perry Mason, right? Rabbit out of the hat stuff. Well, I can’t do that. I can only present your case, whatever it is, the best way possible. And the best thing I can do for your case right now is tell you you haven’t got one.” At that time the lawyer was still trying to be fair. He was even casting around for some thought he could use to convince himself that his client was innocent, though he had frankly admitted as soon as he introduced himself that he didn’t have much hope there.</p>
			<p>Chandler protested that he didn’t have to commit rape. He’d been a widower for a year, but⁠—</p>
			<p>“Wait a minute,” said the lawyer. “Listen. You can’t make an ordinary claim of possession stick, but what about good old-fashioned insanity?” Chandler looked puzzled, so the lawyer explained. Wasn’t it possible that Chandler was⁠—consciously, subconsciously, unconsciously, call it what you will⁠—trying to get revenge for what had happened to his own wife?</p>
			<p>No, said Chandler, certainly not! But then he had to stop and think. After all, he had never been possessed before; in fact, he had always retained a certain skepticism about “possession”⁠—it seemed like such a convenient way for anyone to do any illicit thing he chose⁠—until the moment when he looked up to see Peggy Flershem walking into the culture room with a tray of agar disks, and was astonished to find himself striking her with the wrench in his hand and ripping at her absurdly floral-printed slacks. Maybe his case was different. Maybe it wasn’t the sort of possession that struck at random; maybe he was just off his rocker.</p>
			<p>Margot, his wife, had been cut up cruelly. He had seen his friend, Jack Souther, leaving his home hurriedly as he approached; and although he had thought that the stains on his clothes looked queerly like blood, nothing in that prepared him for what he found in the rumpus room. It had taken him some time to identify the spread-out dissection on the floor with his wife Margot.⁠ ⁠… “No,” he told his lawyer, “I was shaken up, of course. The worst time was the next night, when there was a knock on the door and I opened it and it was Jack. He’d come to apologize. I⁠—fell apart; but I got over it. I tell you I was possessed, that’s all.”</p>
			<p>“And I tell you that defense will put you right in front of a firing squad,” said his lawyer. “And <i>that’s</i> all.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
