<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXXI</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-31" epub:type="chapter">
			<p>The waiter brought two more drinks and carried away the uneaten food. “We don’t know exactly who did what after that,” Hsi said, “but somehow or other it got out of hand. I think it was the technical crew of the factory that took over. I suppose it was an inevitable danger.” He grinned savagely. “I can just imagine the Party workers in the factory,” he said, “trying to figure out how to keep them in line⁠—bribe them or terrify them? Give them dachas or send a quota to Siberia? Neither would work, of course, because there isn’t any bribe you can give to a man who only has to stretch out his hand to take over the world, and you can’t frighten a man who can make you slit your own throat. Anyway, the next thing that happened⁠—the following Christmas⁠—was when they took over the world. It wasn’t a Party movement at all any more. A lot of the workers were Czechs and Hungarians and Poles, and the first thing they wanted to do was to even a few scores.</p>
			<p>“So here they are! Before they let the whole world go bang they got out of range. They got themselves out of Russia on two Red Navy cruisers, about a thousand of them; then they systematically triggered off every ballistic missile they could find⁠ ⁠… and they could find all of them, sooner or later, it was just a matter of looking. As soon as it was safe they moved in here. Best place in the world for them.</p>
			<p>“There are only a thousand or so of them here on the Islands, and nobody outside the Islands even knows where they are. If they did, what good would it do them? They can kill anyone, anywhere. They kill for fun, but sometimes they kill for a reason too. When one of them goes wandering for kicks he makes it a point to mess up all the transport and communications facilities he comes across⁠—especially now, since they’ve stockpiled everything they’re likely to need for the next twenty years. We don’t know what they’re planning to do when the twenty years are up. Maybe they don’t care. Would you?”</p>
			<p>Chandler drained his drink and shook his head. “One question,” he said. “Who’s ‘we’?”</p>
			<p>Hsi carefully unwrapped a package of cigarettes, took one out and lit it. He looked at it as though he were not enjoying it; cigarettes had a way of tasting stale these days. As they were. “Just a minute,” he said.</p>
			<p>Tardily Chandler remembered the quick grasp of the waiter’s fingers on Hsi’s wrist, and that the waiter had been hovering, inconspicuously close, all through their meal. Hsi was waiting for the man to return.</p>
			<p>In a moment the waiter was back, looking directly at Chandler. He looped his own wrist with his fingers and nodded. Hsi said softly, “ ‘We’ is the Society of Slaves. That’s all of us⁠—slaves⁠—but only a few of us belong to the Society. We⁠—”</p>
			<p>There was a crash of glass. The waiter had dropped their tray.</p>
			<p>Across the table from Chandler, Hsi looked suddenly changed. His left hand lay on the table before him, his right hand poised over it. Apparently he had been about to show Chandler again the sign he had made.</p>
			<p>But he could not do it. His hand paused and fluttered, like a captured bird. Captured it was. Hsi was captured. Out of Hsi’s mouth, with Hsi’s voice, came the light, tonal rhythms of Rosalie Pan. “<i>This</i> is an unexpected pleasure, love! I never expected to see you here. Enjoying your meal?”</p>
			<hr class="chap"/>
			<p class="ph4">IX</p>
			<p>Chandler had his empty glass halfway to his lips, automatically, before he realized there was nothing in it to brace him. He said hoarsely, “Yes, thanks. Do you come here often?” It was like the banal talk of a language guide, wildly inappropriate to what had been going on a moment before. He was shaken.</p>
			<p>“Oh, I love it,” cooed Hsi, investigating the dishes before him. “All finished, I see. Too bad. Your friend doesn’t feel like he ate much, either.”</p>
			<p>“I guess he wasn’t hungry,” Chandler managed.</p>
			<p>“Well, I am.” Hsi cocked his head and smiled like a female impersonator. “I know! Are you doing anything special right now, love? I know you’ve eaten, but⁠—well, I’ve been a good girl and I guess I can eat a real meal, I mean not with somebody else’s teeth, and still keep the calories in line. Suppose I meet you down at the Beach? There’s a place there where the luau is divine. I can be there in half an hour.”</p>
			<p>Chandler’s breathing was back to normal. Why not? “I’ll be delighted.”</p>
			<p>“Luigi the Wharf Rat, that’s the name of it. They won’t let you in, though, unless you tell them you’re with me. It’s special.” Hsi’s eye closed in Rosalie Pan’s wink. “Half an hour,” Hsi said, and was again himself. He began to shake.</p>
			<p>The waiter brought him straight whiskey and, pretense abandoned, stood by while Hsi drank it. After a moment he said, “Scares you. But⁠—I guess we’re all right. She couldn’t have heard much. You’d better go, Chandler. I’ll talk to you again some other time.”</p>
			<p>Chandler stood up. But he couldn’t leave Hsi like that. “Are you all right?”</p>
			<p>Hsi almost managed control. “Oh⁠—I think so. Not the first time it’s come close, you know. Sooner or later it’ll come closer still, and that will be the end, but⁠—yes, I’m all right for now.”</p>
			<p>Chandler tarried. “You were saying something about the Society of Slaves.”</p>
			<p>“Damn it, go!” Hsi barked. “She’ll be waiting for you.⁠ ⁠… Sorry, I didn’t mean to shout. But go.” As Chandler turned, he said more quietly, “Come around to the store tomorrow. Maybe we can finish our talk then.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
