<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XLVII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-47" epub:type="chapter">
			<p>Like an angel he went⁠ ⁠… not, he thought bitterly, like a man.</p>
			<p>She was keeping something from him, and he was too stubborn to let her tease him out of his mood. “Everything’s a secret,” he complained, and she patted his cheek.</p>
			<p>“It has to be that way.” She was quite serious. “This is the biggest thing in the world. I’m fond of you, love, but I can’t let that interfere with my duty.”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="ru">Shto, Rosie?</i>” said Chandler’s mouth thickly.</p>
			<p>“Oh, there you are, Andrei,” she said, and spoke quickly in Russian.</p>
			<p>Chandler’s brows knotted in a scowl and he barked: “<i xml:lang="ru">Nyeh mozhet bit!</i>”</p>
			<p>“Andrei.⁠ ⁠…” she said gently. “<i xml:lang="ru">Ya vas sprashnivayoo.⁠ ⁠…</i>”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="ru">Nyet!</i>”</p>
			<p>“<i xml:lang="ru">No Andrei.⁠ ⁠…</i>”</p>
			<p>Rumble, grumble; Chandler’s body twitched and fumed. He heard his own name in the argument, but what the subject matter was he could not tell. Rosalie was coaxing; Koitska was refusing. But he was weakening. After minutes Chandler’s shoulders shrugged; he nodded; and he was free.</p>
			<p>“Have some more coffee, love,” said Rosalie Pan with an air of triumph.</p>
			<p>Chandler waited. He did not understand what was going on. It was up to her to enlighten him, and finally she smiled and said: “Perhaps you can join us, love. Don’t say yes or no. It isn’t up to you⁠ ⁠… and besides you can’t know whether you want it or not until you try. So be patient a moment.”</p>
			<p>Chandler frowned; then felt his body taken. His lips barked: “<i xml:lang="ru">Khorashaw!</i>” His body got up and walked to the wall of Rosalie’s room. A picture on the wall moved aside and there was a safe. Flick, flick, Chandler’s own fingers dialed a combination so rapidly that he could not follow it. The door of the safe opened.</p>
			<p>And Chandler was free, and Rosalie excitedly leaping out of the bed behind him, careless of the wisp of nylon that was her only garment, crowding softly, warmly past him to reach inside the safe. She lifted out a coronet very like her own.</p>
			<p>She paused and looked at Chandler.</p>
			<p>“You can’t do anything to harm us with this one, love,” she warned. “Do you understand that? I mean, don’t get the idea that you can tell anyone anything. Or do something violent. You can’t. I’ll be right with you, and Koitska will be monitoring the transmitter.” She handed him the coronet. “Now, when you see something interesting, you move right in. You’ll see how. It’s the easiest thing in the world, and⁠—Oh, here. Put it on.”</p>
			<p>Chandler swallowed with difficulty.</p>
			<p>She was offering him the tool that had given the execs the world. A blunter, weaker tool than her own, no doubt. But still it was power beyond his imagining. He stood there frozen as she slipped it on his head. Sprung electrodes pressed gently against his temples and behind his ears. She touched something.⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>Chandler stood motionless for a moment and then, without effort, floated free of his own body.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
