<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XLIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-43" epub:type="chapter">
			<p>The work went on, and then it was done, or all but, and Chandler knew no more about it than when it was begun. The last little bit was a careful check of line voltages and a balancing of biases. Chandler could help only up to a point, and then two execs, working through the bodies of one of the Hawaiians and the pilot of a Piper Tri-Pacer who had flown in some last-minute test equipment⁠—and remained as part of the labor pool⁠—laboriously worked on the final tests.</p>
			<p>Spent, the other men flopped to the ground, waiting.</p>
			<p>They were far gone. All of them, Chandler as much as the others. But one of them rolled over, grinned tightly at Chandler and said, “It’s been fun. My name’s Bradley. I always think people ought to know each other’s names in cases like this. Imagine sharing a grave with some utter stranger!”</p>
			<p>“Grave?”</p>
			<p>Bradley nodded. “Like Pharaoh’s slaves. The pyramid is just about finished, friend. You don’t know what I’m talking about?” He sat up, plucked a blade of stemmy grass and put it between his teeth. “I guess you haven’t seen the corpses in the woods.”</p>
			<p>Chandler said, “I found a town half a mile or so over there, nothing in it but skeletons.”</p>
			<p>“No, heavens, nothing that ancient. These are nice fresh corpses, out behind the junkheap there. Well, not <i>fresh</i>. They’re a couple of weeks old. I thought it was neat of the execs to dispose of the used-up labor out of sight of the rest of us. So much better for morale⁠ ⁠… until Juan Simoa and I went back looking for a plain, simple electrical extension cord and found them.”</p>
			<p>With icy calm Chandler realized that the man was talking sense. Used-up labor: the men who had unloaded the first planes, no doubt⁠—worked until they dropped, then efficiently disposed of, as they were so cheap a commodity that they were not worth the trouble of hauling back to Honolulu for salvage. “I see,” he said. “Besides, dead men tell no tales.”</p>
			<p>“<i>And</i> spread no disease. Probably that’s why they did their killing back in the tall trees. Always the chance some exec might have to come down here to inspect in person. Rotting corpses just aren’t sanitary.” Bradley grinned again. “I used to be a doctor at Molokai.”</p>
			<p>“Lep⁠—” began Chandler, but the doctor shook his head.</p>
			<p>“No, no, never say ‘leprosy.’ It’s ‘Hansen’s disease.’ Whatever it is, the execs were sure scared of it. They wiped out every patient we had, except a couple who got away by swimming; then for good measure they wiped out most of the medical staff too, except for a couple like me who were off-island and had the sense to keep quiet about where they’d worked. I used,” he said, rolling over his back and putting his hands behind his head, “in the old days to work on pest-control for the Public Health Service. We sure knocked off a lot of rats and fleas. I never thought I’d be one of them.” He was silent.</p>
			<p>Chandler admired his courage very much. The man had fallen asleep.</p>
			<p>Chandler looked at the others. “You going to let them kill us without a struggle?” he demanded.</p>
			<p>The remaining Hawaiian was the only one to answer. He said, “You just don’t know how much <i>pilikia</i> you’re in. It isn’t what we <i>let</i> them do.”</p>
			<p>“We’ll see,” Chandler promised grimly. “They’re only human. I haven’t given up yet.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
