<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXXIX</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-39" epub:type="chapter">
			<p>The silence was even longer; then there was a babble of discussion, but Chandler did not take part in it. He was thinking. It was a tremendous thought.</p>
			<p>Suppose a man like himself were actually able to do what they wanted of him. Never mind the practical difficulties⁠—learning how it worked, getting a headset, bypassing the traps Koitska would surely have set to prevent just that. Never mind the penalties for failure. Suppose he could make it work, and find fifty headsets, and fit them to the fifty men and women here in this clandestine meeting of the Society of Slaves.⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>Would there, after all, be any change worth mentioning in the state of the world?</p>
			<p>Or was Lord Acton, always and everywhere, right? Power corrupts. Absolute power corrupts absolutely. The power locked in the coronets of the exec was more than flesh and blood could stand; he could almost sense the rot in those near him at the mere thought.</p>
			<p>But Hsi was throwing cold water on the idea. “Sorry, but I know that much: One exec can’t control another. The headpieces insulate against control. Well.” He glanced at his watch. “We agreed on twenty minutes maximum for this meeting,” he reminded the red-headed man, who nodded.</p>
			<p>“You’re right.” He glanced around the group. “I’ll make the rest of it fast. News: You all know they got some more of us last week. Have you all been by the Monument? Three of our comrades were still there this morning. But I don’t think they know we’re organized, they think it’s only individual acts of sabotage. In case any of you don’t know, the execs can’t read our minds. Not even when they’re controlling us. Proof is we’re all still alive. Hanrahan knew practically every one of us, and he’s been lying out there for a week with a broken back, ever since they caught him trying to blow up the guard pits at East Gate. They had plenty of chance to pump him if they could. <em>They can’t.</em> Next thing. No more individual attacks on one exec. Not unless it’s a matter of life and death, and even then you’re wasting your time unless you’ve got a gun. They can grab your mind faster than you can cut a throat. Third thing: Don’t get the idea there are good execs and bad execs. Once they put that thing on their heads they’re all the same. Fourth thing. You can’t make deals. They aren’t that worried. So if anybody’s thinking of selling out⁠—I’m not saying anyone is⁠—forget it.” He looked around. “Anything else?”</p>
			<p>“What about germ warfare in the water supply?” somebody ventured.</p>
			<p>“Still looking into it. No report yet. All right, that’s enough for now. Meeting’s adjourned. Watch the ball game for a while, then drift away. <em>One at a time.</em>”</p>
			<p>Hsi was the first to go, then a couple of women together, then a sprinkling of other men. Chandler was in no particular hurry, although it seemed time to leave anyway, because the ball game appeared to be over. A ten-year-old with freckles on his face was at the plate, but he was leaning on his bat, staring at Chandler with wide, serious eyes.</p>
			<p>Chandler felt a sudden chill.</p>
			<p>He turned, began to walk away⁠—and felt himself seized.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
