<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXIII</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-23" epub:type="chapter">
			<p>With unexpected clarity Chandler realized he was on trial for his life. “Cook? No, I’m afraid not. I mean, I can boil eggs,” he said. “Nothing fancy.”</p>
			<p>“Hah,” grumbled Koitska. “Vel. Ve need a couple, three doctors, but I do not t’ink you vould do.”</p>
			<p>Chandler shook his head. “I’m an electrical engineer,” he said. “Or was.”</p>
			<p>“Vas?”</p>
			<p>“I haven’t had much practice. There has not been a great deal of call for engineers, the last year or two.”</p>
			<p>“Hah.” Koitska seemed to consider. “Vel,” he said, “it could be⁠ ⁠… yes, it could be dat ve have a job for you. You go back downstairs and⁠—no, vait.” The fat man closed his eyes and Chandler felt himself seized and propelled down the stairs to what had once been a bay of a built-in garage. Now it was fitted up with workbenches and the gear of a radio ham’s dreams.</p>
			<p>Chandler walked woodenly to one of the benches. His own voice spoke to him. “Ve got here someplace⁠—<i>da</i>, here is cirguit diagrams and de specs for a sqvare-vave generator. You know vot dat is? Write down de answer.” Chandler, released with a pencil in his hand and a pad before him, wrote <i>Yes</i>. “Okay. Den you build vun for me. I areddy got vun but I vant another. You do dis in de city, not here. Go to Tripler, dey tells you dere vere you can work, vere to get parts, all dat. Couple days you come out here again, I see if I like how you build.”</p>
			<p>Clutching the thick sheaf of diagrams, Chandler felt himself propelled outside and back into the little car. The interview was over.</p>
			<p>He wondered if he would be able to find his way back to Honolulu, but that problem was then postponed as he discovered he could not start the car. His own hands had already done so, of course, but it had been so quick and sure that he had not paid attention; now he found that the ignition key was marked only in French, which he could not speak. After trial and error he discovered the combination that would start the engine and unlock the steering wheel, and then gingerly he toured the perimeter of the lot until he found an exit road.</p>
			<p>It was close to midnight, he judged. Stars were shining overhead; there was a rising moon. He then remembered, somewhat tardily, that he should not be seeing stars. The lane he had come in on had been overhung on both sides with trees.</p>
			<p>A few minutes later he realized he was quite lost.</p>
			<p>Chandler stopped the car, swore feelingly, got out and looked around.</p>
			<p>There was nothing much to see. The roads bore no markers that made sense to him. He shrugged and rummaged through the glove compartment on the chance of a map; there was none, but he did find what he had almost forgotten, a half-empty pack of cigarettes. It had been⁠—he counted⁠—nearly a week since he had smoked. He lit up.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
