<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>IV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-4" epub:type="chapter">
			<p>Five or six others had been executed for hoaxing; Chandler was familiar with the ritual. He even understood it, in a way. The world had gone to pot in the previous two years. The real enemy was out of reach; when any citizen might run wild and, when caught, relapse into his own self, terrified and sick, there was a need to strike back. But the enemy was invisible. The hoaxers were only whipping boys⁠—but they were the only targets vengeance had.</p>
			<p>The real enemy had struck the entire world in a single night. One day the people of the world went about their business in the gloomy knowledge that they were likely to make mistakes but with, at least, the comfort that the mistakes would be their own. The next day had no such comfort. The next day anyone, anywhere, was likely to find himself seized, possessed, working evil or whimsy without intention and helplessly.</p>
			<p>Chandler stood up, kicked the balled-up wax paper from his sandwiches across the floor and swore violently.</p>
			<p>He was beginning to wake from the shock that had gripped him. “Damn fool,” he said to himself. He had no particular reason. Like the world, he needed a whipping boy too, if only himself. “Damn fool, you know they’re going to shoot you!”</p>
			<p>He stretched and twisted his body violently, alone in the middle of the room, in silence. He <i>had</i> to wake up. He <i>had</i> to start thinking. In a quarter of an hour or less the court would reconvene, and from then it was only a steady, quick slide to the grave.</p>
			<p>It was better to do anything than to do nothing. He examined the windows of his improvised cell. They were above his head and barred; standing on the table, he could see feet walking outside, in the paved play-yard of the school. He discarded the thought of escaping that way; there was no one to smuggle him a file, and there was no time. He studied the door to the hall. It was not impossible that when the guard opened it he could jump him, knock him out, run⁠ ⁠… run where? The room had been a storage place for athletic equipment at the end of a hall; the hall led only to the stairs and the stairs emerged into the courtroom. It was quite likely, he thought, that the hall had another flight of stairs somewhere farther along, or through another room. What had he spent his taxes on these years, if not for schools designed with more than one exit in case of fire? But as he had not thought to mark an escape route when he was brought in, it did him no good.</p>
			<p>The guard, however, had a gun. Chandler lifted up an edge of the table and tried to shake one of the legs. They did not shake; that part of his taxes had been well enough spent, he thought wryly. The chair? Could he smash the chair to get a club, which would give him a weapon to get the guard’s gun?⁠ ⁠…</p>
			<p>Before he reached the chair the door opened and his lawyer came in.</p>
			<p>“Sorry I’m late,” he said briskly. “Well. As your attorney I have to tell you they’ve presented a damaging case. As I see it⁠—”</p>
			<p>“What case?” Chandler demanded. “I never denied the acts. What else did they prove?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, God!” said his lawyer, not quite loudly enough to be insulting. “Do we have to go over that again? Your claim of possession would make a defense if it had happened anywhere else. We know that these cases exist, but we also know that they follow a pattern. Some areas seem to be immune⁠—medical establishments, pharmaceutical plants among them. So they proved that all this happened in a pharmaceutical plant. I advise you to plead guilty.”</p>
			<p>Chandler sat down on the edge of the table, controlling himself very well, he thought. He only asked: “Would that do me any good at all?”</p>
			<p>The lawyer reflected, gazing at the ceiling. “… No. I guess it wouldn’t.”</p>
			<p>Chandler nodded. “So what else shall we talk about? Want to compare notes about where you were and I was the night the President went possessed?”</p>
			<p>The lawyer was irritated. He kept his mouth shut for a moment until he thought he could keep from showing it. Outside a vendor was hawking amulets: “St. Ann beads! Witch knots! Fresh garlic, local grown, best in town!” The lawyer shook his head.</p>
			<p>“All right,” he said, “it’s your life. We’ll do it your way. Anyway, time’s up; Sergeant Grantz will be banging on the door any minute.”</p>
			<p>He zipped up his briefcase. Chandler did not move. “They don’t give us much time anyway,” the lawyer added, angry at Chandler and at hoaxers in general but not willing to say so. “Grantz is a stickler for promptness.”</p>
			<p>Chandler found a crumb of cheese by his hand and absently ate it. The lawyer watched him and glanced at his watch. “Oh, hell,” he said, picked up his briefcase and kicked the base of the door. “Grantz! What’s the matter with you? You asleep out there?”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
