<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XLIV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-44" epub:type="chapter">
			<p>But in the end he could not save himself; it was the girl who saved him. That night Chandler tossed in troubled sleep, and woke to find himself standing, walking toward the Tri-Pacer. The sun was just beginning to pink the sky and no one else was moving. “Sorry, love,” he apologized to himself. “You probably need to bathe and shave, but I don’t know how. Shave, I mean.” He giggled. “Anyway, you’ll find everything you need at my house.”</p>
			<p>He climbed into the plane. “Ever fly before?” he asked himself. “Well, you’ll love it. Here we go. <em>Close</em> the door⁠ ⁠… <em>snap</em> the belt⁠ ⁠… <em>turn</em> the switch.” He admired the practiced ease with which his body started the motor, raced it with a critical eye on the instruments, turned the plane and lifted it off, up, into the rising sun.</p>
			<p>“Oh, dear. You <em>do</em> need a bath,” he told himself, wrinkling his nose humorously. “No harm. I’ve the nicest tub⁠—pink, deep⁠—and nine kinds of bath salts. But I wish you weren’t so tired, love, because it’s a long flight and you’re wearing me out.” He was silent as he bent to the correct compass heading and cranked a handle over his head to adjust the trim. “Koitska’s going to be so <em>huhu</em>,” he said, smiling. “Never fear, love, I can calm him down. But it’s easier to do with you in one piece, you know, the other way’s too late.”</p>
			<p>He was silent for a long time, and then his voice began to sing.</p>
			<p>They were songs from Rosalie’s own musical comedies. Even with so poor an instrument as Chandler’s voice to work with, she sang well enough to keep both of them entertained while his body brought the plane in for a landing; and so Chandler went to live in the villa that belonged to Rosalie Pan.</p>
			<hr class="chap"/>
			<p class="ph4">XII</p>
			<p>“Love,” she said, “there are worse things in the world than keeping me amused when I’m not busy. We’ll go to the beach again one day soon, I promise.” And she was gone again.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
